Gaza is no more Gaza has been pulverized
it's been obliterated and that was the
Israeli goal what happens to these
people well gazen civilians today have
an opportunity after Hamas subjugated
them to rebuild their wasn't my question
if I need
psychoanalysis I wouldn't go to a
representative of a lunatic State you
have to understand where normal stin is
in his head okay first of all he doesn't
believe in the existence of the state of
Israel so it's very difficult arguing
somebody that doesn't believe you should
exist at all we left in your
imagination your imagination the Nazis
needed the cover of a war in order to
carry out the final solution everything
this man talks about a blood you madej
your point want I want to ask and he's
having his 5 minutes in the sun because
today it's trending to hate Israel and
hate Jews no it's a short answer my
answer doesn't have short that's correct
Israel's war on Hezbollah is over for
now the ceasefire ends almost 14 months
of fighting and two months of a direct
and deadly assault by Israel inside
Lebanon President Biden and the US
Administration pushed to get the deal
done before Thanksgiving and no doubt
this is the first good news from the
Middle East in a long time but 170 miles
to the South there very little to feel
grateful about Israel's war on Hamas
continues unabated and the idf's conduct
is facing intensifying scrutiny prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Sack
defense minister yav Gallant face ICC
arrest warrants for war crimes reports
by the New York Times and others accuse
the IDF of habitually using captured
gazin as human Shields president Trump
has assembled a stridently pro-israel
cabinet with little patience for his
critics many supporters of the
Palestinian cause fear that life beyond
the war holds precious little cause for
optimism and that the very concept of a
two-state solution may now be dead to
debate this I'm joined in the studio by
two of the strong bu voices on this
conflict both with very opposite
positions FL Hassan is the Israel
special Envoy for trade and Innovation
as well as a former deputy mayor of
Jerusalem Norma finlin is a political
scientist and pro Palestine activist
author of the new book gaza's
gravediggers an inquiry into corruption
in high places well welcome to both of
you I never met either of you I've
interviewed you both uh several times
but it's great to meet you both in
person and I appreciate he's prepared to
do this a lot of people in this uh in
this war period have not wanted to
debate with people especially on the
other side so I appreciate that uh
Norman you got a new book out um and
I'll come to that in more detail as we
go on but just talking about where we
are right now we've got this ceasefire
between Israel and Hezbollah there is no
ceasefire yet with Hamas but where do
you think this this war now
is well with all due respect I have to
disagree with your
characterization of where it began and
where it now is in my opinion speaking
the basis of what Israeli leaders
leaders themselves said after October
7th this isn't a war against Hamas this
is a war against Gaza in fact it's not a
war at all it's a
genocide and in the course of that
genocide we could say as of now the best
estimates are there are about 42 million
tons of rubble in Gaza it would take
about 10 to 15 years to clear out the
rubble and even if the rubble were
cleared out there are no prospects for
rebuilding Gaza because Israel will
claim that any cement that enters Gaza
will be used to build tunnels and so
they'll bar cement as they did after
operation protect cast lead in
20089 so where we are now I would say
Gaza is no more uh Gaza has been
pulverized it's been obliterated and
that was the Israeli goal from October
7th as you recall for sure the
statements that immediately came out
after October 7 spoke about amalec spoke
about there not being any civilians in
Gaza the intention was to once and for
all liquidate solve the Gaza question
and in my opinion they have succeeded in
that regard and um the prospects for the
people of Gaza my guess is and it's pure
speculation here by hook or by crook
they're going to find a way to leave
because there is nothing that remains
about the estimate is about 60 to 70% of
gaza's infrastructure has been destroyed
the hospitals were targeted the
universities were targeted obviously
homes were targeted um so there is
nothing left and that was the intention
the Gaza Hamas aspect was pretty much a
sideshow so for example if you look at
the statistics from the Israeli
government less than one less than one
Israeli soldier has been killed each day
in Gaza okay that's not a war when you
say it's a sideshow I'm going to come to
Flur for a proper response to that say a
sideshow you imply that Israel were
going to do this anyway but hadn't done
this and everything that they have done
they would say was a direct response to
what was a monstrous Act of terrorism I
mean 12200 people were killed nearly
7,000 people were wounded it's one of
the worst attacks of modern times you
know and as you know we've debated this
many times but I have always supported
Israel's right to defend itself in fact
I've always believed they had a duty to
given the scale of what happened with
3,000 people coming over a border and
just murdering anyone get their hands on
it's to me always been a case of what is
a proportionate response what is
acceptable I personally feel it has gone
way too far and for the reasons that you
state I'll come to you Flur is that
there's nothing left there now I don't
know what people expect to happen FL let
me bring you in let me pick up on that
point first and you can get into the
rest of what Norman said but G has just
been fln I mean it is I know people
who've been there who just say it is an
utter de
Devastation what happens after this war
I mean assuming that it ends sooner
rather than later we've seen Israel now
in the war with hisbah certainly for the
next 60 days but what happens gaza's
done isn't it mean what happens to these
people well I know I actually think they
have an incredible opportunity because
in 2005 when Israel left Gaza in order
to give the Palestinian leadership a
chance to create maybe the pilot of a
Palestinian state in beautiful
Mediterranean Coastline they could have
turned it into Dubai or Singapore poor
but instead the when Hamas got in in a
brutal coup in 2006 what happened is
they turned Gaza essentially into a
military base they filled it out with
tunnels 800 kilometers of tunnels they
built under hospitals they built those
tunnels they built boobby traps they
didn't build they didn't build tunnels
under hospitals they built hospitals on
top of tunnels there's like 30 hospitals
in Gaza in in the whole of Israel
there's like that's that's 20 years ago
right well no no they've spent 20 years
turning the whole of Gaza into one booby
trap for this Armageddon moment but
that's not an answer to my question the
answer is what happens now what happens
what happens to 1.9 million people
who've been sent to refugee camps that
have now been attacked as well what
happens to these people a lot of their
homes are just gone to be clear the
refugee camps there are safe spaces
where Hamas also infiltrate and that's
they put their own people they use them
as human Shields as we know as has been
reported and they put their people in
where is there safe what happens now you
ask me where the light is yeah on that
one point you just said though where are
they supposed to go to be safe well
right now where did gar go Mr finlin
said that we're engaged in a genocide if
we were why are we asking people to get
out of way let me ask you again where
can they why are we giving warning why
are we damaging our own our own element
of surprise why are we doing that my
question was where should the garan
civilians go to be safe the garan
civilians today have an opportunity
after Hamas subjugated them to rebuild
their societ that wasn't my question my
question is where can they currently go
to be safe to the safe spaces that
Israel has assigned where Israel is not
attacking well it depends where at one
point they move them from Rafa they said
it couldn't be done you can't move a
million people we did with absolutely
almost zero casualties and so it can be
done you can move a population out of
the way Hamas is actively putting them
in the way that is what nobody talks
about the AR crime but the other yes but
the other argument is that Israel is
indiscriminately attacking everywhere
and then saying you know what hassa
there and because no hang on because no
journalists are allowed in to verify
this because the IDF won't let them
there is no independent way of verifying
whether any of that is true if we were
indiscriminately attacking why are we
asking people to get out of the way why
are we creating safe zones all all of
what he's saying you have to understand
where normal Finkles is in his head okay
first of all he doesn't believe in the
existence of the state of Israel so it's
very difficult arguing with somebody
that doesn't believe you should exist at
all secondly um as a Jew he's got what I
as a Jew as a Jew let me finish my point
and then you can interrup as a Jew talk
about your head as a Jew um you know
Norman finlin has got what I describe as
the abused wife syndrome the abused wife
that stays with her abusive husband has
to justify her staying in three ways one
is saying it's not all that bad which is
what he says about antisemitism the
second is saying well they didn't mean
it anti-Semitism they didn't really mean
to Target Jews and the Third Way which
is he's actively engaging is to saying
it's our fault it's my fault the wife
that says I would have IED come to resp
provoked him before I come and this is
the abusers abusive made your point and
he will respond and he is in the Israeli
Jew is the liberated Jew that has left
the abusive husband before I go to
Norman to respond to that which I'm sure
he'll want to the point that you were
going to answer and I made you answer a
different one because you raised it but
what happens at the end of this war you
want to know what I think should happen
no what is going to happen well I
believe what's the plan what Israel got
as planned well I believe that with
Trump coming into power in the United
States and with a Saudi deal on the
table which has been on the table and
this is one of the reasons that they
started the massacre on October 7 begin
with they understood where the the Irani
understood where this was all going they
deployed Hamas and they said this is the
moment now so I believe that there's a
real opportunity for the gazin for the
good gazin who want a decent life for
themselves and not living a life of
terrorism to rebuild how under the maybe
Civil administration of their own local
they going live when all their homes
have been destroyed with their own local
Leaders with Saudis with emiratis who
know how to build quickly who have the
resources to build quickly if we really
have Consortium of countries like the
abrahamic cord countries can get
together and rebuild there is an
opportunity still under Israel control I
don't think Israel should be controlling
them so Israel would back off completely
we have to we have to retain security
control so we don't have another you
would have control okay but not
administrative control but eventually
eventually we don't have to have any you
eventually it' be really nice actually
if Israel had no control yes why did we
leave in 2005 let me let me bring why
did we leave in I'll come back to you
I'll come back to you Norman your chance
to resp respond okay number one totally
trivial point if I need
psychoanalysis I wouldn't go to a
representative of a lunatic State I
would go to a rational person number two
Israel never left Gaza that's not my
opinion in 2005 Israel relocated its
troops from inside Gaza to the periphery
of Gaza what goes into Gaza what goes
out of Gaza who goes into Gaza who goes
out of Gaza the airspace the water
everything was controlled by Israel the
guardian of the Fourth Geneva Convention
is the international Committee of the
Red Cross the opinion of the Red Cross
from 2006 to the present is that Israel
Israel Remains the occupying power in
Gaza that's the opinion of the United
Nations it's the opinion of all human
rights I don't disagree with you about
any of that but let me ask you this nor
straight straight question straight
question hang on let me hang on I
actually don't disagree with your
assessment right I do think Israel has
exercised a control over the people of
Gaza ever since they said they seed
control to a government but let me ask
you one question before you finish your
answer which is this
Hamas there can be no doubt that Hamas
was given billions of dollars lot of it
encouraged by Netanyahu given billions
of dollars which they did in fact
squander which they did squander to the
detriment of their people which they did
by building all these tunnels right and
which they did in the end when they when
they invaded Israel October the 7th they
knew absolutely what would happen and
therefore in that moment they sentenced
to death tens of thousands of their own
people would you quibble with that and
don't forget the leaders are billionair
their leaders are billion I will
actually I will actually with all the
respect because I respect the facts I'll
quibble with everything you said MH
number one the money that went into Gaza
mostly from European countries and other
International organizations they
monitored where the money went very
carefully they weren't about to uh endow
uh Hamas there's no evidence how dides
ask
tunnels they don't have one penny of
accountability one pen okay allow me
allow me I will challenge both of you
but don't sh no one penny of
accountability
he's living in Al European governments
and many of the international economic
organizations the international monetary
fund the World Bank unad un conference
for trade and development they all put
out on the probably a quarterly basis
very precise reports on Gaza none and
I've read all the reports over 10 or 20
years now 17 years uh none of the
reports have claimed that the
catastrophe the economic catastrophe in
Gaza has been caused by Hamas none now
if you claim that you have more
expertise in the subject than the IMF
and the World Bank and unad well you can
believe that I personally don't believe
that the claim of all of these
International respected organizations is
the main source the root cause of the
catastrophe in Gaza prior to octo
October 7th the root cause has been the
medieval blockade that Israel imposed on
it and which Human Rights Watch just in
November two 2024 a month ago Human
Rights Watch described as quote a crime
against humanity but how that's the
problem how how did Hamas afford to
build all these T you know uh Pierce I
never quarrel with facts I'll give you
an honest answer how going to tell you
there's no tunnels in well I think the
the the uh amount of tunnels has been
vastly exaggerated but I'll admit I
can't prove that I've talked to civil
engineers in Gaza about the possibility
Israel claims 4 150 miles of tunnels I
find that totally incredible there are
billions of dollars worth of tunnels you
I I don't know I'm not a civil engineer
he wants us to remain in
power I'm perfectly willing to discuss
what I don't know I'm not a civil
engineer I can't answer what I can say
is the following let's get back to the
question of what's happened in Gaza you
said Israel is in a war with Hamas yes
so has the other guest in this room yeah
my name is
FL what is your name Flur Flur so has
Flur let me ask you a simple question
okay if you're at war with Gaza why are
you shooting children in the skull and
in the chest
the New York Times published an article
on that came under a lot of flack
because they published that article they
said we can't refute the evidence we
have the x-rays in front of us they're
shooting children in the head in the
skull and in the
chest if you're engaged in the war in
Gaza why are you killing journalists why
are you killing Medics why are you
killing un workers if you're engaged in
the war with Hamas why is it the Human
Rights Watch just this past week put out
a report they tell people where to flee
they say go to the safe zones Human
Rights Watch says when we uh when the
people are directed they're being shot
at at the road but are you seriously
saying no but no hang on hang on hang on
hang on hang on when they get when you
get to the safe areas already that point
Israel drops 2,000 PB bombs on made that
point does that sound like a war or does
that sound like the genocide does it
sound like well it's it's interesting
okay let's get into that because it's an
interesting part of the debate
it's horrendous that un workers
journalists children women have all been
killed it's horrendous Target well okay
tar they quibble with the word targeted
they say it's collateral damage as
they've gone after terrorist you when
you shoot child here's my question
Norman that's not collateral can you
tell me Norman can you tell me any War
where innocent people have not been
killed in large numbers I'm not talking
about innocent people this this is not
he's talking about this is not
collateral damage this is not even
indiscriminate killing this is very
discriminate killing it's
discriminately
indiscriminate bombing of the entire
infr wanted genocide though why don't
they just kill everyone in Gaza there's
a very simple let me I'm I'm going to
come to there's a very simple answer to
that question Piers because even take I
know you're not allowed to say it but
since I know the topic very
take the case of the Nazis the Nazis
needed the cover of a war in order to
carry out the final solution now Hitler
had plans earlier on but it required a
certain amount of cover propaganda and
all sorts of other uh devices in order
to carry it out God says in the news
it's very hard do you believe Israel had
a right to defend itself after October
the 7th actually if you want to hear my
full answer I'm not giving you a yes or
it's a short answer my answer doesn't
have short answer that's correct I don't
have short answers I've said it to you
before in my opinion
Israel here it's not my opinion I'll
quote G island Israel the former head of
Israel's National Security Council
Israel created I'm quoting him now in
2004 he said Gaza is quote a huge
concentration camp Israel created a huge
con conentration camp in Gaza Israel
imposed a medieval blockade on Gaza
which has been characterized as a crime
against humanity Israel periodically
went into Gaza on its high-tech Killing
Spree what it called
operations I would say Israel created I
think I'm quoting now uh the British
Economist called Gaza a toxic
dump Israel created a situation where
you have children yeah I understand how
old are your CH children from 31 down to
12 okay fine imagine if your child
you're a father your child was born into
what G island called a concentration
camp your child was left to languish in
that concentration camp it sounds like
you're built you're working up a
justification oober completely
justifying October 7
get I could explain where he's coming
allow me to finish I do need to bring in
I need your Psy not yes you do you need
a
psychist I love
lunatics intervie well she probably
thinks you're a lunatic too fine fine um
and by October 7th as you recall Gaza
had disappeared from the international
stage all the talk was about the Abraham
Accords whether Saudi Arabia so your
child was destined to be born into
languishing and die in a concentration
camp Israel created those conditions
justifi my view is Israel forfeited Its
Right of
self-defense based on its criminal abuse
of the population of Gaza for 20 years
okay but so just to extrapolate that it
was just very clear there's no need for
extrapolation Israel forfeited Its
Right does that does that mean then that
what happened was justified I will stick
by my
formulation Israel forfeited its right
to self-defense by having but were Hamas
justified by your by your logic was
Hamas
Justified if I if your
children were in that situation I I
suspect as a final
Resort they might very well have done
what happened so then by his logic
there's a hundred children in tunnels
and dungeons in Gaza right now taken
innocent people not soldiers taken
hostage if it was your child then it
justifies everything by his very Li
shooting children by is very
logic somebody takes away your children
morning
resp we he gave first of all let's just
come back from goth well hang on your
response to what because Norman's gone
as far as I've heard him do in
effectively saying it was a Justified
attack is has no right self but of
course he's going to say that because he
doesn't believe Israel has a right to
exist he doesn't believe Israel has a
right could you let me answer my
question
B that Israel has has he ever said that
show has he ever said that my question
is this well you just said he said that
if Isel doesn't have the right to self
show me where I said that then it
doesn't have the right to exist Flair
Flair Doan just ask to selfdefense it
doesn't have a right to exist he
believes the whole of the country is a
settlement he doesn't believe anywhere
you've said it you've implied it we' had
if you let me answer the question yes I
agree let answer the question where did
I say Israel had no right to exist show
me can I answer I've written 10 books I
think you should answer it because you
have said it as a fact if you believe
that Israel doesn't have the right of
self-defense you are basically saying
that Israel doesn't have the right to
exist no I never you do there's no
connection so then we can exist but we
can't defend ourselves after people
attack us and let's just go back you
can't defend yourself against
concentration he keeps interrupting me
he just had a 10in I agree I agree 10
minute monologue give me a 5 minute
monologue okay okay since the beginning
of the establishment of the state of
Israel which he believes that we were
the terrible people displacing people
okay we were also displaced Jews were
also displaced from Arab lands and
that's just what happened postwar
postcolonization of the world so let's
look in 47 there was a two-state
solution proposed the Jews said yes the
Arabs said no it's not that they wanted
a state it's that they didn't want the
Jews to have a state so we declared a
state in 48 what happens all the
countries around us come to attack to
create a genocide it was a miracle that
Israel wasn't eliminated in that moment
move forward 67 those territories which
were attacks there was no Palestine
there was no Palestinians it was Jordan
and Egypt and Syria and Lebanon that
attacked Israel if they would never have
attacked hisone 67 that land would have
remained Arab land okay fast forward 73
another war that we didn't start now do
we not have the right to defend def
ourselves from destruction we didn't
start' 67 We Didn't Start 73 We Didn't
Start then we go and we say we crumble
on to hope we we hold on to hope we say
let's do the O lower courts we offered
Arafat and Clinton will say this himself
everything they said they wanted 97% of
the West Bank half of Jerusalem the lot
and they said no and they started a
blooding tiat in the streets of my city
that killed many many innocent civilians
Jewish and Arab alike then we thought
let's try something else in 2005 let's
do unilateral withdrawal that's what
shaon did he said maybe if we actually
just leave they'll have an opportunity
there was never a blockade the blockade
started when Kamas went into power and
they were bringing in Contraband
missiles in which to attack Israel
that's when a country has to say we need
to defend ourselves now if there's a
blockade don't they have a border with
Egypt why don't you say a word about
Egypt there's no blockade when it's
three walls where's the fourth wall it's
Egypt what happened to Egypt didn't they
have tunnels going in and out of Egypt
in fact it was Egypt that had a much
harsher border than Israel we had 20,000
people coming in to work let me ask you
a question so what
concentration has tell me something what
concentration C has a country club what
concentration camp has a country club
question
Island yes G island thinks we should
keep Northern Gaza that's
why G island called a huge concentration
camp
why4 speak for him hey you could just
google4 yes we left in 2005 right he
called Gaza 2004 a huge con let me ask
you FL let me ask we left in 2004 never
left we left in your imagination you
your imagination you have according to
the international Committee of the Red
Cross you did
we know how neutral to Human Rights
Watch you didn't leave Neal to Amnesty
International we know Neal everybody's
an anti-semite no but a lot of people
let me ask a question let me ask a
question I want
you let me just a time out no I want to
ask you a question which is this there
can be no doubt that even if Israel says
we unil naturally pulled out in 2005 and
withdrew troops and so on to the Border
whatever there's no doubt that Israel
continued to exercise a form of
occupying control and we saw that very
clearly after October the 7th when
Israel was at the flick of a switch able
to turn off the supplies of water of
electricity why didn't they develop
their own water but here's my question
for you why didn't they use their own
elect here's my question for you here's
my question for you given that Israel
had that power you can dispute the Word
occupation but they had a control over
the people of Gaza the Palestinians
which I don't think they should have had
what gives Israel the right to exercise
that kind of power over the people of
Gaza it wasn't over the people of Gaza
it was a terrorist entity that has in
its foundational Charter the destruction
of the whole of Israel you gave them
control atast no we didn't give them
control we gave the Palestinian
Authority control are you saying all
gazans of Hamas no we gave the
Palestinian Authority control and then
the year later they had elections pushed
by the American government at the time
and then Hamas won that election and
then took over in a brutal coup which by
the way you know how many of the PA they
killed this is their own civil war going
on listen I think that's also isra
everything is is's false you are
basically practicing the bigotry of low
expectation for the gazans and the
Palestinians he's saying that the
Palestinian leadership has no
responsibility zero responsibility Hamas
is a brutal terrorist organization okay
it is so that explains why Israel
prohibited chocolate from entering Gaza
that's why Israel prohibited baby chicks
I don't agree with any of Gaza I agree
with you that's why he's twisting the
reality actually that is the
reality
doting building material that they knew
they were it wasn't all they were
restricting let me ask you listen I want
to bring things forward we finally agree
on more than we disagree listen you'd be
surprised honestly I have a lot of
Sympathy for the plight of the
Palestinians and I have sympathy Israel
to what happened I have a lot of
Sympathy for the Palestinians because
they've always had terrible leadership
fine let me you know what I think
Palestinians should be entitled to the
exact same human rights as you they
should be entitled to their own
self-determination well why didn't they
do that why didn't they take one of the
pie why did they s do you know
IE
never
responsibity the world world has taken
all responsibility away from the lead my
view is a bigger view which is the right
behind all this is Iran Absolut Iran's
tedic have been fueling Hamas esbah and
the hotis and that is the core problem
in the region in Norman world islamism
is not a problem political Islam is
respond in his world that's not a
problem it's a very simple answer there
are there are called four or five final
status questions bearing on resolving
the conflict yeah Jerusalem settlements
borders refugees those are the main
issues under international law the
settlements are illegal each and
everyone I noticed yesterday when I was
watching your latest program you
referred to the building of new
settlements as being appalling no under
international law confirmed in the July
decision of the international court of
justice all the settlements are illegal
under the plans that uh Ehud Barack
offered in 2000 in the year 2000 and
then later under eood alart Israel
wanted to keep 80% of the settlements in
place it wanted to keep all the
settlement blocks in place the question
of borders Israel's position has
been excuse me it will not return to the
June 1967 border that's in breach of
international law okay Israel says it
will not return leave East Jerusalem
East Jerusalem is occupied Palestinian
territory it belongs to the Palestinian
people very simple very simple I hope
everybody will listen who are we
occupying J from it was Jordanian before
no you're talking about
law wrong in law you cannot just be on
that
H there never been P do you dispute okay
on one
point we can argue about the his hang on
we can argue about the history of the
settlements okay what I don't think
anyone can argue Israeli or Palestinian
since the start of this war on October
the 7th 8th is that the aggressive
expansion of settlements on the west
Bank by Israelis since the start of his
war in my estimation has not just been
outrageous I think it actually
constitutes an indisputable War crime
what are they doing do you know have you
ever read Oslo I I'm very aware of so
let me interview so let me tell you what
Oslo why you assuming things question
asking you I'm asking you a question
because when you talk about it you don't
understand what was actually sorry sorry
I think he understand i' literally
specifically asked you about the the
aggressive expansion settlements since
October the 7th it is indefensible it is
illegal and in my estimation it is a war
crime now we know that's happening we
can see it we can see what we can't see
in Gaza is anything because the
journalists aren't allowed in there's no
yes and if the journalists were allowed
in and they got killed you'd say
Israel's killing journalists so you
can't win can you what do you think of
the aggressive expansion
of on the west the I reject the premise
of that and I'll tell you why think let
me ask you a question you support these
I've had Jewish guests who have there no
OCC there's no occupation she said
there's no you think these expansions
are fine I want to answer the question
are they Justified I want to answer the
question yes or no Oslo give me yes or
no split I'm not interested in Oslo Oslo
split no because the whole premise of
question I'm asking a simple question FL
has the expansion of settlements in the
West Bank since the start of this war
been Justified yes or no 94%
Palestinians are living under their own
in Judea and Samaria is it Justified
what do you mean is it Justified of
course what Justified we are building
communities there are communities foring
people out of their hom nobody's been
forced out have you ever looked at
international law says you're breaking
the law there's no homes this desert
this the Judean desert where there's s
very interesting because okay let me
come back to Norman you come back to nor
are getting Ked out of you know what
Norman here's my thing for you which
you're going to probably like me saying
this because I've had guests from
Israeli side and when I've had that very
point that question they have actually
very quickly said I think it's wrong
right and I respect that completely I
got to say Flur your total refusal to
accept anything in terms of the
settlement since October 7th of the West
Bank is wrong I found I just find it
outr why was there terrorism before
1967 all no I am because you're talking
about territory
that talking territory that was legit
legitimately conquered after a war We
Didn't Start in ' 67 so let me ask you a
question do you think that when somebody
aggressively starts a war they should
never pay a price for that no but I
think you should be honest about what
the price should never pay a price you
should be you should be no of course
they should should they so what's the
price they should P that's the question
I've been asking for the last year
Jordan attacked that's the question I've
been asking teritory was Jordanian and
let me tell you something after the war
they said keep them fine I'm going to
Norman for response here's the thing
Norman I we agree about more than you
may realize and and I do with you as
well in certain areas and disagree in
others right so I don't come up this
from an ideological and with one side or
the other but I do find anyone who
attempts to defend the expansion of
settlements in the way that we've seen I
just think that they're so far one-sided
they can't see the wood for the trees
out there my big issue with Gaza is not
that your characterization is
necessarily wrong it's that we as
Western media don't know because we're
not out in there and my big big problem
with the IDF and I'll get a response
from E on this is the IDF refusal to let
independent Western journalists in to
verify what they're doing and to report
fairly and freely I think is very
telling and increasingly damning okay
Pierce I listened to you yesterday
yesterday's program when you had Katie
Halper on and alen dtz and John Cornus
and Matt Kenard yeah and that point you
made yesterday which you're reiterating
today I'd like to address it very
directly yeah you say the problem is
that Israel is or a problem is that
Israel isn't admitting journalists and
you correctly said it's fair for a
fair-minded person to infer from that
fact yes so they're hiding something
they're excellent they're hiding
something no question but that's only
half the picture the other half of the
picture which I hope your listeners will
pay attention to the other half of the
picture is this since Israel closed the
blockade on Gaza it's been a basket case
an an economic basket case and all these
International organizations have had to
come in save the children world food
program care UNESCO UNICEF they all have
field operations there they all know the
lay of the land they're all still there
since October 7th now when South Africa
submitted its application to the
International court of justice alleging
that Israel was in breach of the
genocide convention who did it site it
cited all of these
organizations it would be better if we
had journalists there but really at this
point journalistic coverage would be
Superfluous we have all the respect
never Superfluous okay I will say
Superfluous meaning we have all of these
International respected organizations
many of them headed by Americans like
agency for
International when they charge when they
charge when they all charge when they
all charge Israel is using
star Israel is using starvation as a we
we have about eight minutes left I just
want to on to the special adviser for
prevention of genocide yesterday for the
UN was sacked why because she said that
what's happening in Gaza did not meet
the definition of genocide yeah this is
the special advisor for prevention of
genocide what he is talking about is a
blood liel that Jews have suffered for
thousands of years and what's happening
today that the little blood liel that
used to be oh Jews are killing Christian
children for making the bread and all of
that today as the collective country the
Jewish country now today we Face the
same blood lials but in big that's
exactly what we have a genocide is a
blood Lial is a blood Li everything this
man talks about a blood your point I
want to ask and he's having his five
minutes in the sun because today it's
trendy to hate Israel and hate Jews but
it'll it'll be over because we've
survived worse than this I'm to
interrupt you I want to ask uh Norman
just about Donald Trump he's the new
president of the United States he's
packed his cabinet with very pro-israeli
people that's no great secret he makes
no secret of being very pro- iseli what
does that mean do you think for this War
I mean on one level it may bring an end
to the war faster which would be a good
thing for everybody but what does it
mean going forward I mean my big
argument with Israel I've seen no
coherent plan for life after the war and
I've been very cynical about Netanyahu
that he's facing corruption charges the
moment this is over he's also there's a
big report out today from Israel uh
holding his government to account for
the failures of allowing October the 7th
to happen on their watch there'll be
accountability for that there's no great
incentive for him to end this but Trump
may want him to end it quickly I suspect
but what happens then I mean just just
just be big picture here what is going
to happen do you think well I hate to
Bear be a bearer of bad news and I've
been
criticized on that score by people who
normally I would count as my allies but
as I said I do not I think Gaza is no
more just gone what will happen to the
people I think by hook or by corrup
going to have to figure out a way to
leave well they're going to Arab
neighboring Arab countries oh they want
I don't I don't know what what's going
as you know appears in the modern world
right now there are 2.5 million syrians
in Turkey they're about 1.5 million
syrians in Lebanon there are large
population movements I don't want to go
into that area first of all because it's
speculative and second of all it seems
to me it's a distraction from what we
should be focusing on now
and what we should be focusing on now is
what happened who is accountable for it
because that's one part of historical
Justice before I go to Flur for response
just very quickly because we are
literally in the last five minutes now
should Hamas have any form of power in
any government after this war Pierce
I've answered that question to you
before but I'll answer it again I'll try
to be I will be
succinct if Hamas by killing 12 100
people in October 7th disqualified
itself from participating in any future
in the resolution of the conflict then
Israel by a factor of maybe 20 times
more has disqualified itself and we have
to add it's not just the state of Israel
it's the entire population of Israel
which gets more and more
enthusiastic and relishes more and more
each time a massacre unfolds in Gaza we
also saw the hang on on that on that we
also saw scenes of widespread Jubilation
when the hostages were dragged through
the streets in Gaza from a lot of
Palestinians the idea that it's just
Hamas members who have a view of an
anti- jewish senent we saw it with our
own he is assigning a cult of death to
the wrong side he is assigning a cult of
death Israel Israel is a cult of life
let me ask you a question Isel is ask I
have four children let me ask you I have
four children and they come home singing
songs one day we'll have peace and you
know what they teach the
Palestinian let me finish the very he
not let me
answer that's not true you do not live
in Israel you have
not and I don't know they sing death to
the Arabs he's wrong even in Amsterdam
they sing death to the Arabs in in fact
even in am todam they Sayang you know
why there are no more
schools there no more children in wife
is justifying in Amsterdam he's
justifying the progam the Abus wife AB
Abus wife syndrome justifying the pr
Israel has a cult of life for
Jews and the 20 and 20% ofab who live
and 20% of Arab citizens that live in
peace in Israel that prosper in Israel
in every single strata of society in
Israel you know who the best educated
people in Israel are Christian Arab
women and that's Israel we celebrate
diversity everybody gets opportunities
including our Muslim our Jews and our
Christian population he's living in a
world that doesn't exist and is
assigning everything that is wrong with
Kamas to now let me just finish with
something this is Israel Kanya who we
killed thankfully a billionaire the guy
who obviously had follow the accounting
of Kamas yes the blood of women children
and elderly we are the ones that need
this blood so it awakens within us the
Revolutionary spirit this is the guy who
stole billions from his own people and
lived like a king in Doha now I think
what both of you get wrong is that this
is not a territorial conflict this is an
ideological conflict because Hamas don't
want a two-state solution and
unfortunately the PA have rejected every
two-state solution proposal what happens
at theend
194 end of the war there is no
territorial solution because this is not
a territorial conflict I pray that the
Abraham Accords and that the wider peace
in the region will bring the
Palestinians to the point that they
understand that the only way forward is
to negotiate with Israel not to go this
way or that way and not to kill Israelis
but to negotiate with Israel Israel is a
country that I'm so proud of my country
1948 nobody gave us anything we've been
fighting Wars in cly we've built a
technological superpower we are curing
cancer we are curing climate issues are
doing well we have more prizes per
capita than anybody else including Arab
need prosper in you know what we need to
cure for Arab children we need a cure no
we need a cure for a 75 year conflict
and you know what I'm I'm reminded again
I'm reminded again of a conflict in
Northern Ireland yes between implacable
enemies who killed each other for many
decades and they eventually got leaders
who were able to Barrel through all that
and reach peace we need I was Deputy May
J for six years all I did was build
Bridges between the 40% Muslim
population and the Jewish population and
they have prospered for there uh Flur
and Norman thank you listen I appreciate
you coming together I know it's
passionate views on both sides but I do
appreciate you agreeing to do this
debate I always learn things when smart
people debate these things all right
okay just one last word if you don't
mind very quickly okay I was supposed to
debate Benny moris at Oxford he said he
won't debate me I was then supposed to
debate eud olart at Oxford this week
that's why I came he said he wouldn't
debate me so I appreciate the fact that
Flur came I don't think she faed very
well I I I well that's true but let me
you no no I'm done he will refuse he
refuses to debate M yusf Hass you know
what he refused to debate him tomorrow
you agreed to debate him he AG to debate
the debate I ask you to invite to debate
him on your show beauty of my show is we
get people on and they do debate I've
got to leave M to debate him on your
show he will refuse we will decide who
we get on show I'm I'm leaving you there
Norman I'm going to leave it Norman if
you want another plug for your book we
got to leave it there I want to leave
with a
she continue it out
exception all right noral fingles the
author of gaza's grave diggers and
inquir into corruption in high places
thank you good to see you good to
finally meet you Flur Hassan great to
see you uh in person I enjoy the debate
very much thank you